Entity Classes:

E1 Entity

This class comprises all things in the universe of discourse of the CIDOC ConceptualReference Model.It is an abstract concept providing for three general properties:

Identification by name or appellation, and in particular by a preferred identifier

Classification by type, allowing further refinement of the specific subclass to whichan instance belongs

Attachment of free text and other unstructured data for the expression of anything notcaptured by formal properties

All other classes within the CIDOC CRM are directly or indirectly specialisations of E1 CRMEntity.

E55 Type

This class comprises concepts denoted by terms from thesauri and controlled vocabulariesused to characterize and classify instances of CIDOC CRM classes. Instances of E55 Typerepresent concepts, in contrast to instances of E41 Appellation which are used to nameinstances of CIDOC CRM classes.

E55 Type provides an interface to domain specific ontologies and thesauri. These can berepresented in the CIDOC CRM as subclasses of E55 Type, forming hierarchies of terms, i.e.instances of E55 Type linked via P127 has broader term (has narrower term): E55 Type. Suchhierarchies may be extended with additional properties.

E74 Group

This class comprises any gatherings or organizations of human individuals or groups that actcollectively or in a similar way due to any form of unifying relationship. In the wider sensethis class also comprises official positions which used to be regarded in certain contexts as oneactor, independent of the current holder of the office, such as the president of a country. In suchcases, it may happen that the group never had more than one member. A joint pseudonym (i.e.a name that seems indicative of an individual but that is actually used as a persona by two ormore people) is a particular case of E74 Group.

A gathering of people becomes an instance of E74 Group when it exhibits organizationalcharacteristics usually typified by a set of ideas or beliefs held in common, or actionsperformed together. These might be communication, creating some common artifact, acommon purpose such as study, worship, business, sports, etc. Nationality can be modelled asmembership in an instance of E74 Group. Married couples and other concepts of family areregarded as particular examples of E74 Group.

E42 Identifier

This class comprises strings or codes assigned to instances of E1 CRM Entity in order toidentify them uniquely and permanently within the context of one or more organisations. Suchcodes are often known as inventory numbers, registration codes, etc. and are typicallycomposed of alphanumeric sequences. Postal addresses, telephone numbers, URLs and e-mailaddresses are characteristic examples of identifiers used by services transporting thingsbetween clients.

The class E42 Identifier is not normally used for machine-generated identifiers used forautomated processing unless these are also used by human agents

E41 Appellation

This class comprises all signs, either meaningful or not, or arrangements of signs following aspecific syntax, that are used or can be used to refer to and identify a specific instance of someclass within a certain context.Instances of E41 Appellation do not identify things by their meaning, even if they happen tohave one, but by convention, tradition, or agreement. Instances of E41 Appellation are culturalconstructs; as such, they have a context, a history, and a use in time and space by some groupof users. A given instance of E41 Appellation can have alternative forms, i.e. other instances ofE41 Appellation that are regarded as equivalent, regardless of the thing it denotes.Different languages may use different appellations for the same thing, such as the names ofmajor cities. Some appellations may be formulated using a valid noun phrase of a particularlanguage. In these cases, the respective instances of E41 Appellation should also be declared asinstances of E33 Linguistic Object. Then the language using the appellation can be declaredwith the property P72 has language: E56 Language.Instances of E41 Appellation may be used to identify any instance of E1 CRM Entity andsometimes are characteristic for instances of more specific subclasses of E1 CRM Entity, suchas for instances of E52 Time-Span (for instance “dates”), E39 Actor, E53 Place or E28Conceptual Object. Postal addresses and E-mail addresses are characteristic examples ofidentifiers used by services transporting things between clients.Even numerically expressed identifiers for extents in space or time are also regarded asinstances of E41 Appellation, such as Gregorian dates or spatial coordinates, even though theyallow for determining some time or location by a known procedure starting from a referencepoint and by virtue of that fact play a double role as instances of E59 Primitive Value.E41 Appellation should not be confused with the act of naming something. Cf. E15 IdentifierAssignment.

E52 Time-Span

This class comprises abstract temporal extents, in the sense of Galilean physics, having abeginning, an end, and a duration.Instances of E52 Time-Span have no semantic connotations about phenomena happeningwithin the temporal extent they represent. They do not convey any meaning other than apositioning on the “time-line” of chronology. The actual extent of an instance of E52 Time-Span can be approximated by properties of E52 Time-Span giving inner and outer bounds inthe form of dates (instances of E61 Time Primitive). Comparing knowledge about time-spansis fundamental for chronological reasoning.

Some instances of E52 Time-Span may be defined as the actual, in principle observable,temporal extent of instances of E2 Temporal Entity via the property P4 has time-span (is time-span of): E52 Time-Span. They constitute phenomenal time-spans as defined in CRMgeo(Doerr & Hiebel 2013). Since our knowledge of history is imperfect and physical phenomenaare fuzzy in nature, the extent of phenomenal time-spans can only be described inapproximation. An extreme case of approximation, might, for example, define an instance ofE52 Time-Span having unknown beginning, end and duration. It may, nevertheless, beassociated with other descriptions by which people can infer knowledge about it, such as inrelative chronologies.Some instances of E52 may be defined precisely as representing a declaration of a temporalextent, as, for instance, done in a business contract. They constitute declarative time-spans asdefined in CRMgeo (Doerr & Hiebel 2013) and can be described via the property E61 TimePrimitive P170 defines time (time is defined by): E52 Time-Span.When used as a common E52 Time-Span for two events, it will nevertheless describe them asbeing simultaneous, even if nothing else is known.

E89 Propositional Object

This class comprises immaterial items, including but not limited to stories, plots, proceduralprescriptions, algorithms, laws of physics or images that are, or represent in some sense, sets ofpropositions about real or imaginary things and that are documented as single units or serve astopic of discourse.This class also comprises items that are “about” something in the sense of a subject. In thewider sense, this class includes expressions of psychological value such as non-figural art andmusical themes. However, conceptual items such as types and classes are not instances of E89Propositional Object. This should not be confused with the definition of a type, which isindeed an instance of E89 Propositional Object.

E7 Activity

This class comprises the activities that contribute to the management and the preservation andevolution of instances of E78 Curated Holding, following an implicit or explicit curation plan.It specializes the notion of activity into the curation of a collection and allows the history ofcuration to be recorded.Items are accumulated and organized following criteria such as subject, chronological period,material type, style of art, etc., and can be added or removed from an instance of E78 CuratedHolding for a specific purpose and/or audience. The initial aggregation of items to form acollection is regarded as an instance of E12 Production Event, while the activities of evolving,preserving, and promoting a collection are regarded as instances of E87 Curation Activity.

E22 Man-Made Object

This class comprises all persistent physical objects of any size that are purposely created byhuman activity and have physical boundaries that separate them completely in an objectiveway from other objects.The class also includes all aggregates of objects made for functional purposes of whateverkind, independent of physical coherence, such as a set of chessmen

E21 Person

This class comprises real persons who live or are assumed to have lived.Legendary figures that may have existed, such as Ulysses and King Arthur, fall into this classif the documentation refers to them as historical figures. In cases where doubt exists as towhether several persons are in fact identical, multiple instances can be created and linked toindicate their relationship. The CIDOC CRM does not propose a specific form to supportreasoning about possible identity.In a bibliographic context, a name presented following the conventions usually employed forpersonal names will be assumed to correspond to an actual real person (an instance of E21Person), unless evidence is available to indicate that this is not the case. The fact that a persona may erroneously be classified as an instance of E21 Person does not imply that the conceptcomprises personae.

E53 Place

This class comprises extents in the natural space where people live, in particular on the surfaceof the Earth, in the pure sense of physics: independent from temporal phenomena and matter.They may serve describing the physical location of things or phenomena or other areas ofinterest. Geometrically, instances of E53 Place constitute single contiguous areas or a finiteaggregation of disjoint areas in space which are each individually contiguous. They may havefuzzy boundaries.The instances of E53 Place are usually determined by reference to the position of “immobile”objects such as buildings, cities, mountains, rivers, or dedicated geodetic marks, but may alsobe determined by reference to mobile objects. A Place can be determined by combining aframe of reference and a location with respect to this frame.It is sometimes argued that instances of E53 Place are best identified by global coordinates orabsolute reference systems. However, relative references are often more relevant in the contextof cultural documentation and tend to be more precise. In particular, people are often interestedin position in relation to large, mobile objects, such as ships. For example, the Place at whichNelson died is known with reference to a large mobile object, i.e. H.M.S Victory. A resolutionof this Place in terms of absolute coordinates would require knowledge of the movements ofthe vessel and the precise time of death, either of which may be revised, and the result wouldlack historical and cultural relevance.Any instance of E18 Physical Thing can serve as a frame of reference for an instance of E53Place. This may be documented using the property P157 is at rest relative to (providesreference space for).

Relationships


P2 has type

E1 Entity → E55 Type

P107 has current or former member

E1 Entity → E74 Group

P1 is identified by

E1 Entity → E42 Identitiy

P4 has time-span

E1 Entity → E52 Time-Span

P3 has note

E1 Entity → E89 Propositional Object

P11 had participant

E1 Entity → E7 Activity

P16 used specific object

E1 Entity → E22 Man-Made Object

P67 refers to

E1 Entity → E21 Person

P109 has current or former curator

E1 Entity → E21 Person

P108 has produced

E1 Entity → E53 Place

P46 is composed of

E1 Entity → E53 Place

P53 has former or current location

E1 Entity → E53 Place 